Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
All right so in the last few videos we looked at different places like Bus sumo and like Google to find
inspiration for content ideas.
Now the idea is that some of these platforms have sort of like hidden places where you can spot trends.
Well one place that puts those trends front and center hard at all to find is Twitter.
So let's take a quick look at Twitter because this can actually be helpful for creating content that's
timely and can get people that will actually engage with it.
Not Twitter trends is a special section on the platform that shows the kind of like the top 10 list
of the day of topics hashtags and other notable events or items on Twitter dot com you'll see the list
on the left side of the screen on your mobile app.
Well you need to look and I think it's the Explorer screen for it instead what you see is usually specific
to the location you're at now.
No matter where you are though chances are you'll see a lot of topics that have to do with politics
from a business standpoint.
Now it's usually a great idea to stay as far away as possible from political issues and topic.
Try to stay focused on what you're trying to accomplish on Twitter.
And that is meeting and having conversations with people.
Very rarely do political conversations get you there.
Your chances of doing this are just generally much better when you don't have a controversial subject
matter to deal with.
Right off the bat look at the list but ignore the political ones.
OK.
Beyond the political stuff you see on Twitter you see a wide range of other trending topics that could
touch on pop culture type things like you know the TV show that's airing its season finale right now.
It can be some sports ball event specially if it's your local sports ball team.
It might even be a hashtag where people are trying to come up with the funniest answer coolest content
or just trying to get involved in some way of the Twitter conversation.
I shared this pic on Throwback Thursday when I could have saved it for Flashback Friday.
Whatever.
Hashtag sorry not sorry.
As a company you can certainly jump in and participate a great thing about doing this is that you actually
can show you have some personality some companies show they're not just big faceless organizations and
that they're actually human beings in there somewhere.
It can really help the perception of who they are when they do it correctly.
Hey look at this funny tweet there not just in it for the money they want to have fun too.
Now some older companies have done a cool job like the throwback Thursday hash tag for instance and
share pictures from years way in the past.
And cool example Land Rover shared this picture.
It's from 1972.
American Express combined a picture of a car from 58 and the one from today.
Nostalgia can be pretty cool and if you have some early screenshots of your app or I don't know retro
photos from your company's first office assuming that you've been around for a while or hey even embarrassing
high school yearbook photos it might be cool to share it and show an interesting behind the scenes look
at who you are.
So Tom it's like Throwback Thursday happen all the time.
But what about the topics that are actually new.
How can you pick up on the right Twitter trends and use them to create some tweets of your own.
First look at the list and try to see if any of the topics are obviously relevant to you.
If nothing seems relevant that's fine.
Hey the whole world isn't concerned with you and your company all the time.
Get over yourself.
This is pretty normal.
But here's the scenario.
OK maybe hash tag travel Tuesday is trending and you happen to make a productivity app.
They don't seem obviously connected but give it some thought.
Here in a blog post about how your users can use your app all traveling.
If so you can actually tweet about it use that hash tag and share a link to your post.
If you haven't written this blog post well here's a perfect excuse to do so.
And if it's going to take you a week to write it that's fine.
Guess what.
Next Tuesday will be travel Tuesday again.
Remember that your Trends list is specific to your location.
So if you're trying to stay aware of what's happening in your local area let's say for example that
your company is based in San Francisco.
I don't know where I came of that idea.
And hey look people are talking about hash tag Giants.
That is the baseball team not giant beast like Godzilla.
Yes our baseball teams the Giants I learned this yesterday.
The baseball team is starting let's say spring training getting ready for another season to begin.
OK so that's why people were talking about it.
Now you may not know a baseball from a bass guitar but a quick scan of the tweets tells you that the
local fans are excited about something.
So as a local company you can wish the team luck on a new season.
You can walk past the park OK and maybe taken nuber to the park and then snap a selfie.
Taggett And there you go.
Shows some local spirit is one way to get noticed by local customers.
Perhaps you can even do a quick promo.
Spring training is here.
Use Giants as a coupon code today and get free shipping on any order hash.
I go Giants.
Nobody is going to forget you are a company trying to make money of course.
However when you stop promoting yourself 100 percent of the time and take some time to celebrate or
discuss other things in the world that other people care about you as a company begin to appear more
human and more approachable.
Is that tweet promotional.
Sure but it's also relevant to the world outside of your company.
So search those Twitter trends and if you end up finding hashtags or topic that's giving you a lot of
inspiration.
Keep using it if you want to monitor at often use apps like TweetDeck dot com they can help you monitor
topics more easily than like constantly searching.
You can run TweetDeck in your browser go to TweetDeck com or you can do it on your phone too.
Let's try it out just here for a second.
We'll use the browser and we'll do a search for travel Tuesday that hashtag you can see the results
and if you like it and after furter it again later you can click on that add column button and it will
always be available.
TweetDeck I believe is free now for all the same steps for the other search terms and topics you want
to keep an eye on regularly and you'll save yourself a lot of steps in the future.
So enjoy Twitter and tweet deck and I'll see you in the next letter.